---
title: "Writing a Good Script"
teaching: 5
exercises: 5
questions:
- "How do we write a good job script."
objectives:
- "Write a script that can be run serial or parallel."
- "Write a script that using SLURM environment variables."
- "Understand the limitations of random number generation."
keypoints:
- "Parallelism"
---

In lesson we will take a look at a few of the things to watch out for when writing scripts for use on the cluster.
This will be most relevant to people writing their own code, but covers some good general practices.

Lets have a look at the script we ran before, `array_sum.r`, 

```
{% include array_sum.r %}
```
{: .language-r}

Starting from the top;

```
num_cpus <- 2
```
{: .language-r}

The number of CPU's being used is fixed in the script. We can save time and reduce chances for making mistakes by replacing this static value with an environment variable. 
We can use the environment variable `SLURM_CPUS_PER_TASK`

```
num_cpus <- strtoi(Sys.getenv('SLURM_CPUS_PER_TASK')) 
```

Slurm sets many environment variables in your job, see [Slurm Documentation for the full list](). 

This however, will not work if we choose to run the same piece of code on the login node, or on our local machine.
Generally it is best not to diverge your codebase especially if you don't have it under version control, so lets add some compatibility for those use cases.

```
num_cpus <- strtoi(Sys.getenv('SLURM_CPUS_PER_TASK', unset = "1")) 
```

Now if the slurm variable is not set, 1 cpu will be used. \(you could also use some other method of detecting CPUs, like `detectCores()`\).

#### Verbose 


Having a printout of job progress is fine for an interactive terminal, but when you aren't seeing the updates in real time anyway, it's just bloat for your output files.

Let's add an option to mute the updates.

```
print_progress <- FALSE
```

```
if (print_progress && percent_complete%%1==0){

```

#### Reproduceability 

As this script uses [Pseudorandom number generation](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pseudorandom_number_generator) there are a few additional factors to consider.
It is desirable that our output be reproducible so we can confirm that changes to the code have not affected it. 

We can do this by setting the seed of the PRNG. That way we will get the same progression of 'random' numbers.

We are using the enviroment variable `SLURM_ARRAY_TASK_ID` for reasons we will get to later. We also need to make sure a default seed is set for the occasions when `SLURM_ARRAY_TASK_ID` is not set.

```
seed <- strtoi(Sys.getenv('SLURM_ARRAY_TASK_ID', unset = "0"))
set.seed(seed)
```

Now your script should look something like this;

```
{% include array_sum2.r %}
```
{: .language-r}

{% include links.md %}
